When I started writing software,
n-tier and monolithic applications were the de facto standard.
In one single binary Web artifact like an EAR or WAR file,
there would be a layered architecture with
decomposition of code into more functional components.
So we'd have the presentation layer, the business layer,
and the data access layer,
all in one file.
There are several disadvantages to interior monolithic applications.
First, there's tight coupling of code,
which makes changes hard because a single deployment
contains all of the layers which causes long testing,
building, and deployment cycles.
A big monolithic application makes code reuse and sharing of components difficult.
When components are shared in a monolithic application,
it brings about tight coupling.
Due to tight coupling,
the smallest of changes can require large-scale releases which impacts speed to market.
The Microservices Architecture or MSA provides improvements over the big monolith.
The microservices architecture decomposes systems into
discrete individual standalone components that can
communicate amongst themselves working together or with external systems.
MSA is a more agile framework that fits well with the cloud-based world we live in
today and lends itself well to web application development and web service development.
MSA is very flexible because it supports
any language that can communicate via a Restful endpoint
since it leverages rest over HTTP and is a far simpler means for delivering web services,
than let's say SOAP,
which has long been criticized for complexity.
MSA offers agility and systems that are easier to write,
test, deploy, and share.
MSA provides systems that can better scale to load and demand.
MSA provides systems that are resilient because failures
are isolated and don't cascade through the entire infrastructure.
Typically, once an application reaches a certain level of scale,
it transitions to MSA.
We will see this with some real-world examples from both Amazon and Netflix,
who leverage a microservices architecture.
When it comes to Amazon's global footprint,
with the spike in sales,
one big monolithic application would be very hard to manage.
Netflix converted from a traditional development model with
100 engineers producing a monolithic DVD rental application to
a microservices architecture with
many small teams responsible for the end-to-end development of
hundreds of microservices that work together to
stream digital entertainment to millions of Netflix customers.
There are several characteristics of the microservices architecture.
The phrase micro and microservices isn't related to the lines of code,
but is based on the scope of the interface.
Each microservice is single-purpose,
it's simple, and it has a well-defined interface.
It's modular and independent,
and it has isolated persistence,
which simply means the microservices don't share data,
they have their own unique database,
and they serve as the single system of record for data.
The case study that we are going to look at is an online ordering application.
There are multiple services that work together to create the system.
There is the item service,
the order service, and the shipping service,
each with their own database.
Now, instead of building out the entire system,
we will focus only on the item service.